PyCity Schools Data Analysis:

The purpose of this analysis is to help the school board and mayor make 
strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities. The data 
provided ample evidence of a few key points I’d like to speak about in this 
brief summary of my findings. There seems to be a correlation between school 
spending and overall grade proficiency. 

The sources of data used to discover certain trends were student population and 
the types of schools these students attend. The total budget for each school and 
the total budget per capita were considered throughout the dataset. I also used 
the average math scores and the top percentile in math in each school, as well 
as the average reading scores and the top percentile in reading in each school. 
I then calculated the overall achievements in reading and math, 
combined, in each school to determine if any tendencies were evident. 

There is glaring evidence that Charter schools performed much better overall in 
math and reading given that the top 5 schools in learning competency were all 
Charter schools. In contrast, it was also very clear that District schools 
received larger budgets, though this detail didn’t lead to much success 
scholastically due to the fact that the bottom five schools were all District 
schools with all of them having much larger budgets than the Charter schools. 
Sometimes three times as much. I’d be remiss if I didn’t note that the District 
schools have quite a few more students per school, which may be a reason for 
poorer scholastic achievement, but it doesn’t negate the findings and what the 
data clearly shows. The main argument against this fact is that the total budget 
per capita was between $578.00 and $655.00. This is not that big of a 
discrepancy even though District schools tended to be larger. The only 
conclusion I can make, to this point, is that it is possibly due to larger class 
sizes, which may have led to the faculty having a harder time teaching, and the 
students, a harder time learning in these environments.
